#summary Quick Start for new users of SeqPipe.

= Installation =

SeqPipe is written in Perl, so you should ensure perl has been installed before you run seqpipe.

You can download SeqPipe from [Downloads https://code.google.com/p/seqpipe/downloads/list] page and then extract files from the compressed tarball):
{{{
wget http://seqpipe.googlecode.com/files/seqpipe-v0.4.10-r262.tar.gz
tar xvf seqpipe-v0.4.10-r262.tar.gz
}}}

Or you can directly checkout the source code from subversion (see [Source] page).
{{{
svn checkout http://seqpipe.googlecode.com/svn/trunk seqpipe
}}}

Then, add the seqpipe directory to you PATH environment variable:
{{{
export PATH=$(pwd)/seqpipe:$PATH
}}}

Now, you can just type "seqpipe" to run it.

For convenient next time, you can edit your bash profile (such as ~/.bashrc) to add the export line.

= Show usage =

{{{
$ seqpipe

SeqPipe: a SEQuencing data analsysis PIPEline framework
Version: 0.4.10 ($Rev: 262 $)
Author : Linlin Yan (yanll<at>mail.cbi.pku.edu.cn)
Copyright: 2012-2013, Centre for Bioinformatics, Peking University, China
Websites: http://seqpipe.googlecode.com
          http://www.cbi.pku.edu.cn

Usage: seqpipe [options] <procedure> [NAME=VALUE ...]

Options:
   -h / -H         Show help messages.
   -l [<pattern>]  List current available procedures.
   -m <file>       Load procedure module file, this option can be used many times.
   -t <int>        Max thread number in parallel. default: 1
   -e <cmd>        Inline mode, execute a bash command directly.
   -s <shell>      Send commands to another shell (such as "qsub_sync"), default: /bin/bash
   -k              Keep intermediate files.
   -R              Show the raw procedure declaration.
   -T              Test mode, show commands rather than execute them.
}}}


= Write first pipeline =

Create new text file (named as "hello.pipe") as following:
{{{
function hello
{
   echo "Hello"
   echo "World"
}
}}}

Then run the command:
{{{
seqpipe -m hello.pipe hello
}}}

If you see message "Pipeline finished successfully!", Congratulations! You have successfully run your first pipeline.